Hi,

pspGL is a pure, minimal, hardware-accelerated implementation of something like
OpenGL for the Playstation Portable. Before you are able to compile it, you
need to set up a PSP toolchain and SDK as described on http://pspdev.org.

The exit() implementation in the psplibc is broken, please apply the patch at
the end of this file before building the SDK.

If you build on MacOS-X just open a shell and type:

   $ make && make -C test-egl clean install
   $ make && make -C test-glut clean install

For other operating systems the install rule probably won't work, please 
create a new install rule for your OS and sumbit the according patch.

All OpenGL-ES fixed-point commands are not implemented. Please take a look
in the GLES/gl.h header file for the OpenGL commands implemented additionally
to the minimum OpenGL-ES profile. Define PURE_GLES before including this file
if you want to switch off these extensions.

You can also use the GL/gl.h include set, but should avoid double-precision
function calls for performance reasons.

Texture objects are not yet implemented, glTexImage2D always binds the current 
texture. See the eglcube demo for an example.

Display lists are used internally, but not exposed to the GL API.

Vertex Arrays are supported, but only the interleaved native PSP vertex formats.
No repacking is done, vertex data pointers must be aligned to 16byte boundaries,
since they are passed directly to the DMA controller for maximum performance.

PSP-extensions (Sprites, Bezier patches, Vertex and Matrix blending) are not yet
implemented. Well-done patches are welcome!

Only a minimum set of the core GLUT functions is implemented.

pspgl_misc.[hc] contains some debug functions to dump PSP GE command buffers, 
the GE register set and the GE matrix stack to the memory stick. In the
tools/ directory you find a rough disassembler for GE packets, maybe you find
this useful to debug your problems. Please note that still a lot of commands
are missing, please send patches if you enhance this functionality.

Here is a short list of things you should consider when writing GL applications
for the PSP:

 - only 4 light sources are supported
 - antialiasing can get switched on/off only globally
 - No user-defined clip planes are supported
 - only single-pixel wide lines and points
 - Alpha channel and Stencil buffer in the frambuffer are shared.
   (Enable Stencil test if you want to write to the stencil buffer)
 - We don't know yet whether/how the fog function can get changed.

This list is by no means complete, please report if you encounter other issues.

All files are BSD-licensed, feel free to use it in free or commercial projects.
enjoy, have fun,

Holger Waechtler

